[single note]
Hi, Okazaki...
What's up? Is something wrong?
[Tomoya] You weren't around,
so I went looking for you.
Don't tell me you've been
practicing for the play in a
place like this every night.
Not every night.
I can't really practice at home,
because if I sing or raise
my voice it'll bother
the neighbors.
All right,
but try to be careful.
[Tomoya] It's dangerous to
be in a place like this alone.
It's right by my house.
[Nagisa] Even if something
did happen,
all I'd have to do is scream
and Dad will come running.
[Tomoya] Yeah, but you're kind
of dense, so I worry soemtimes.
Huh? I don't really seem
that dense, do I?
[Tomoya] I thought
it was obvious.
I'm really shocked.
[sigh]
You get depressed
way too easy.
It's not so bad.
[giggle]
It was a joke.
I've gotten used to it already.
All your teasing, I mean.
When you put it that way,
it makes me feel kind of guilty.
Anyway, sorry, I guess
I should watch what I say.
It's fine. Actually,
please don't change.
I like you just the way you are.
Sure.
[Tomoya] No problem.
Did you decide on what
play you want to do?
It's the same one I wanted
to do before.
I don't know the title, but
it's a story I heard when
I was young.
[Tomoya] So, what's it about?
[Nagisa] It's a story about
a girl who lives all alone,
because she's the
last person alive.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Nagisa] Nothing dies, and
nothing is born in the world.
It's a tragic fantasy
on a cold winter's day.
[girl] It's done.
[girl] I'm sorry.
I'm sorry!
[girl] I'm sorry...
[sniffling]
[Tomoya] A young girl living
in a world that has ended...
Somehow I feel like I've
heard of that before...
No, I'm sure of it.
I just can't remember
when and where.
[Sanae] I'm useless! Nothing
but a burden to the Bakery!
[Akio] But I love your bread!
Argh, I screwed that up.
[Tomoya] Oh?
What is it this time?
[Akio] I was recommending
Sanae's bread
to one of our customers
and she said it was inedible.
Sanae overheard
it and got upset.
We call this one a rainbow roll.
Feel the rainbow!
[Tomoya] I'm not really
sure what that means.
[Akio] A girl living in a world
that has ended...?
Nope, sorry, but I'm afraid
that doesn't ring a bell.
[Tomoya] Could you try a little
harder to jog your memory?
Like, did you ever read Nagisa
a fairy tale like that when
she was little?
Hmm... Nope, don't remember.
[Akio] Why don't you ask Sanae?
I see. All right then.
[Akio] Hey, kid.
[Tomoya] Huh?
I don't know what you're up to,
but to tell you the truth,
I don't like the sound of it.
So, listen, if you find
out something strange,
don't tell Nagisa.
Run it by me first.
Why should I?
Just do it.
Got it?
[Sanae] No, I don't remember
anything like that at all.
Come on, can you try to think
back a little bit?
It might not be a storybook;
it may have been
something on TV.
It might help if you told
me how the story ends.
Nagisa said it was
a tragic fantasy,
so I'm thinking it might
not have a happy ending.
A tragic fantasy, huh?
I can't think of anything.
Besides, tragedies aren't really
my specialties,
so I can't imagine
I told any to Nagisa.
[Sanae] It might be something
she heard at school or
somewhere else.
Oh, I see.
[Sanae] I'm sorry, is it
something important?
Well, kind of.
I guess.
[Tomoya] Something important?
I don't know why, but somehow
I get the feeling it is.
Well, just because I don't
remember it, doesn't mean
she never read it.
Maybe it's still lying around
the house somewhere, tucked
away in a corner?
You could also look
at the school library.
Thanks, that's a good idea.
I'll try it.
Sorry, but I don't think
we have a book like that here.
[Yukine] We don't have many
children's books or
picture books.
It's a high school library,
so I guess that's no surprise.
[Yukine] We have quite
a collection of plays
and drama videos
for high schoolers, though.
Do you think that might help?
I appreciate it, but I don't
think it was originally a play
or a performance piece.
[Yukine] I see.
But hey, Yukine! Help me out.
I'm looking for a spell that
can tell me which girl has
a crush on me.
Do you think you can show me?
Geez, we were talking about
something serious here.
I've got just the spell.
[Youhei] Whoa! For real?!
[Yukine] Ta-da!
First you form
a little heart shape
with your thumbs and index
fingers, just like this.
After that, repeat "She loves
me, she loves me not,"
three times in a row.
She loves me, she loves me not.
'Kay, now what?
For the last part of the spell
to work, all you need to do
is take a quick walk
around the campus.
The first girl who talks to you
after that is the one who
likes you.
[Youhei] Woo! Awesome!
Here I go! Ha ha!
[Tomoya] Hey...
[Yukine] Yes?
[Tomoya] If there's a guy
and he likes a girl,
do you think she would
like him to tell her?
Oh, you mean like
you and Furukawa?
[Tomoya] I-I never said that...
[Yukine] Naturally,
if the feeling is mutual,
then the girl would
be happy to hear it.
However, keep in mind the timing
is an important factor as well.
If you're too sudden or too
forceful, it can cause her
feelings to change.
So that's how it is, huh?
[door opening]
[Yukine] How did it go?
Leave me alone...
[Tomoya] How many times
did you run around?
[groan]
Even after all that, not a
single girl said a word to you?
[sobbing]
Hold on, let me get
you some water.
[gasp]
[Yukine] Alright, Okazaki.
Now it's your turn.
I'm supposed to do it too?
Form a heart with your fingers,
just like this.
Alright, but let's make
this fast.
Come on, Sunohara, move.
Uh-
Ssh!
[Tomoya] It's nothing personal,
but somehow I feel like
you're the last person I should
get romantically involved with.
[Tomoya] Listen, there's a big
bear that eats little girls
prowling around
the school right now.
If you want to make it out
alive, then act like you're
dead and don't say a word.
Just pretend you're
a zombie, okay?
[Fuko] Mmhmm.
[zombie sounds]
Oh man, that was a close call.
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
You were late, so I came
looking for you.
Why are standing here
in the hall?
U-Uh, well, I... I...
[Tomoya] She loves me,
she loves me not.
Now just go outside. Start
walking around the campus.
The first girl who stops and
talks to you, has a crush
on you.
What's wrong, Okazaki?
Uh, it's nothing.
Looks like everyone's here, now.
[Nagisa] I heard this story
a long time ago,
but I don't remember the name
and I don't remember
if it was a picture book
or something someone told
me or what.
But anyway, the story is about
a little girl who is all alone
in the world.
It is very lonely for her.
Very sad and very difficult.
[Nagisa] There's nothing and
no one else in the world.
But one day, the little girl
decides to create a friend.
So she puts together a bunch
of odds and ends and makes
a mechanical doll.
And then, as if answering the
girl's wishes, the doll begins
to come alive.
At long last, the girl's
loneliness goes away.
[Tomoya] Now I'm sure
I've heard it before.
[Nagisa] Come, look! You won't
believe what I just found!
[Tomoya] What is it?
[Nagisa] Isn't it cute?
Back when I was in elementary
school, I used to have this
charm on my school bag.
[singing]
Dango, dango, dango, dango...
[sigh]
Aren't you a little old
for that sort of thing?
[continues singing]
[Akio] Hey! Who's singing that
embarrassing song in my shed?
[Tomoya] Your daughter,
that's who.
[Nagisa] We're looking
for something.
I thought I might be able to
find some old picture books
or fairy tales I read when
I was little.
[Akio] Trust me, there aren't
any picture books in there.
Who knows what will turn
up if we look hard enough.
It's not there, okay?
So just get back to making
out in the bedroom
or whatever you kids
do these days.
[gasp]
What am I saying?!
I can't encourage that!
Calm down. You're the one
who said it, not me.
[Akio] Just get out
of there already!
Come on! Move it!
[Tomoya] What do you
want with me?
Just listen.
What I'm about to tell you
is not for your ears,
not Nagisa's.
And since this is a
man-to-man conversation,
I don't want you telling Sanae
about this either.
[Akio] It would only stir
up old memories.
That's fine.
[sigh]
Some tea would be nice.
Hey, Sanae, bring us some tea,
will you, please?
[Sanae] Okay!
Damn, I forgot we were
supposed to keep this
a secret from Sanae!
[Akio] Argh!
[Tomoya] I think you need
to take your brain in for
some repairs.
[Akio] Man, that was close.
Anyway, we're safe now.
To tell you the truth, kid...
[Sanae] Here's your tea.
Oh, thanks a lot.
[Sanae] You have some
too, Okazaki.
[Tomoya] Thanks.
[slurp]
Yup, if you're Japanese,
it's got to be tea.
Now I'll say it one more time,
keep this a secret from
Sanae and Nagisa.
What secret are you
keeping from me?
Guh! You're standing
right there?!
After you finish your tea,
I'll go back inside,
and you can have your
secret man talk.
You heard her, kid,
now hurry up and drink!
[chugging]
Are you doing this on purpose
or are you just stupid?
[Akio] Alright, now we can
finally talk in peace.
You're the one who was making
it difficult in the first place.
Did you ever find what you
were looking for?
[Tomoya] Uh, no, not yet.
[Akio] I see.
Well, don't get me wrong,
it's not like I cared in
the first place.
I'm not interested in digging up
the old potty Nagisa used for
toilet training.
You say it like I am.
Oh yeah? Seemed like you were
looking pretty hard to me!
[Tomoya] Yeah, for a picture
book, not a training potty!
[Sanae] Hey, you two! It's late,
so keep your voices down.
You don't want to trouble
the neighbors.
Well, whatever, let's just
forget about the potty.
You're the one who brought that
crap up in the first place.
Oh yeah? Well from now on, our
code name is "training potty!"
How do you like that?
Fine, whatever you want.
Good, then let's move on.
Whatever you're looking
for isn't really the issue.
I was just a little worried that
you might find something else
while you were
digging around out there.
[Tomoya] Something else?
[Akio] You want to know?
Well, not if you don't
want to tell me.
It's fine, I'll tell you.
If you don't know the truth,
you'll probably just think
I have an ass-load of porn
magazines hidden out there.
[Tomoya] Now you're just putting
ideas in my head.
Listen, those things we've got
piled up back there in the shed,
all of it, they're all pieces
of our past.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Akio] Old photos and diaries,
that kind of stuff.
[Akio] Things to remind us of
the days when we were young
and chasing our dreams.
But why is it a problem
if we see that?
[Akio] Let me explain.
We don't talk about this much,
but when Nagisa was little,
she almost died.
She was face to face with death.
It was a close call.
It all happened about
ten years ago.
Sanae was a middle
school teacher,
and I was finally able
to follow my dream, too.
We had a busy life,
but a happy one.
[Tomoya] Your dream?
What was that?
[Akio] That's got nothing
to do with this story.
The only thing you need to know
is that we were both focused
on our careers.
Too focused, actually.
The truth is, we hardly ever
found time to spend with Nagisa.
Anyway, it all started when
Nagisa came down with a fever.
It was a cold, snowy day.
Unfortunately, the day care
center was closed at the time,
and we couldn't find anyone
to babysit either.
Even though our daughter was
sick, it was a busy time for
both of us,
and regardless of the
circumstances, we couldn't
take off work.
At that point, her temperature
had come down,
and I figured I could go home
as soon as I finished my work
for the day.
It was just two hours...
Just two short hours.
But...
Nagisa had gone outside
to wait for us to come home.
I thought that God must
be punishing us for being
so selfish.
He was taking Nagisa away
because we were too busy chasing
our dreams to worry
about our own child.
I'm sure there are plenty
of people in this world
who can balance their careers
and their child,
but we couldn't.
We had to make a choice.
When Nagisa opened her eyes
again, the two of us made
a pledge:
we promised that we'd always
be by her side.
[Akio] So, we both changed
careers and decided to start
a bakery together,
since Sanae was so confident
about baking bread and all.
'Course you can imagine
how that turned out.
So, if I wanted to survive,
I had to learn the trade myself.
It wasn't easy. We were always
in and out of debt,
but I can't say it wasn't fun.
But you don't want Nagisa
to find out? Why not?
Because knowing her,
she'll think it was her fault.
She'll think she's the reason
why Sanae and I had to give
up on our dreams.
Actually, I'm not sure,
but somehow I have this
really bad feeling,
like something happened
when I was little.
It might not be my fault,
but I feel like I must've done
something really bad to them.
[Akio] Eventually, Nagisa
started to suspected that
something was wrong.
So, we put all of our
mementos into storage.
Digging up all this crap
is hard enough on me.
Just imagine how sad
it would make Sanae.
I don't know, but I still think
you should tell Nagisa.
It might be tough at first,
but she deserves to know,
and I'm sure she has the
strength to deal with it.
[Akio] Maybe so, but if we just
break it to her out of the blue,
then it'll come back
as a pretty big shock.
But some day,
when the time is right,
I'll tell her everything.
[Akio] But that's the
truth for you.
It's always harsh, isn't it?
Attention, please!
It's time for a quiz!
I've been planning something
very special for Sunday, which
is tomorrow, by the way.
So, what do you think it is?
Number one: a picnic...
Number two: pick-pick...
Three: picric acid!
Hold on, I don't understand
the last one.
Picric acid is a
chemical compound.
It's yellow, highly aromatic,
and explosive.
I see. That's neat. Guess you
learn something new every day.
[Akio] Alright, Nagisa,
what's your answer?
Right! I choose picnic,
number one!
Wrong! The correct answer
is number two: pick-pick!
So tomorrow, we'll have fun
pick-picking all day.
Nagisa, you and I can still go
on a picnic if you'd like, okay?
[Akio] Huh?! Wait!
That's not fair!
[Nagisa] Okay!
Don't leave me out!
[arguing]
Hey, is it okay if we forget
about Drama Club just
for tomorrow,
and have a little fun instead?
Yeah, sounds good to me,
we could use a break every once
in a while.
[Nagisa] Yeah!
[Sanae] By the way, Okazaki,
would you mind telling me
what kind of food you like
to eat?
I want to pack something
that you'll enjoy as well.
[Tomoya] Sure.
[Akio] I want to eat apple
slices cut up to look
like rabbits!
No fair, Dad, who said you
got to go first?
By the way, I'd like to request
hamburgers, please!
Then I want some
deep-fried shrimp!
[Tomoya] I wonder if this is
what a normal family is like?
Somehow, I don't think I should
go with them tomorrow.
I wonder what Dad's
doing right now?
Gyuh! Who's in my bed?!
Who do you think? It's me.
[Youhei] Okazaki,
what are you doing here?
Nothing really, but what are
you doing up so early?
[Youhei] Actually,
I'm about to go to sleep.
Picnic, huh?
I have to admit, that's not
really your style, is it?
Not at all. I figure if I went,
it would just put a damper
on their family get together.
[Youhei] But isn't Nagisa
expecting you?
She'll be disappointed,
won't she?
I left a note, so I'm sure
she'll be fine.
"I have an errand to run, so
please go without me," it says.
Yeah, but this is Nagisa
we're talking about here,
I'm sure she's going to imagine
the worst case scenario.
At least she'll think you feel
uncomfortable staying
at her house.
Don't you think?
Come on,
she's not that sensetive.
It's just a stupid little
picnic after all.
You ought to know that Nagisa
has no confidence when it
comes to these things.
She's always worried.
[Youhei] At least, that's what
it seems like to me.
Maybe before, but she told
me she's been more
confident lately.
[Youhei] That's just because
you've been around.
You're always scolding her
and egging her on.
That's why she's able to take
on different challenges.
That's why she feels
more confident now.
Yeah, but that's
a good thing, right?
[Youhei] Of course it is!
That's what I'm saying!
Think about this for a second.
She's gained confidence because
you've been around to help.
Now, if you suddenly turn
your back on her,
what do you think will happen
to all that confidence she's
built up?
Nagisa doesn't realize
how you feel about her.
So, it's easy for her
to get the wrong idea.
You don't even think about
it, but if you keep acting
so wishy-washy,
you're really going to hurt her.
First you ran away from
your dad's house.
Then you run away from
Nagisa's house, too.
Now you come running here
and expect me to put you up?
Fine. If you really don't
want to go to the picnic,
I'd be more than happy
to tag along in your place.
And hey, if I'm lucky, love will
blossom between Nagsia and I.
[tink]
[Tomoya] I'm leaving.
Sorry I bothered you.
[door opening and closing]
[yawn]
[Youhei] That's it for me.
[Tomoya] Nagisa!
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
I was looking for you.
I left you a note,
did you get it?
Huh, note?
I didn't see any note.
Where have you been
all this time?
We were starting to get worried.
[Tomoya] Uh, you got
my note, right?
Yeah, but I cooked it up
and ate it for breakfast,
so I never read what it said.
Why did you...?
I wanted to play baseball,
but it's getting
kind of late now.
I'm sorry, it's just-
You're going to have to make up
for keeping us waiting all day.
[Akio] And you can start
by coming with us.
Huh?
[ping]
[victory cry]
[kids playing]
Am I on a roll today, or what?
Did you see that, Sanae?
I wouldn't miss
it for the world.
You fall in love with me again?
Yep, again and again!
You're the best.
Of course I am!
[laughing]
[Tomoya] She didn't have to
spread it out on a picnic
cloth and everything.
Okazaki, I helped Mom make all
the food, so I hope it's good.
Give it a try, okay?
Sure.
[Tomoya] Tastes great.
I'm so glad.
Hey, kid! Hurry it up!
You're next to bat!
Get your ass up to
the plate already!
[Tomoya] Alright, I'm coming.
Well, here I go.
Okay, knock it out of here.
[kid] Aw, come on!
[Tomoya] Wonder if I can
still hit with my shoulder?
[ping]
[Akio] Alright! Nice one, kid!
[cheering]
You see that, Nagisa?
Yep, wouldn't miss
it for the world!
Did you fall in love
with him again?
Ye- Ah! Dad, come on!
Dammit! She does like him!
Get over here, Nagisa,
you're up to bat!
[Akio] Stop making me wait!
[Nagisa] What? You mean
I have to play, too?
[kid] Alright!
[Tomoya] Go for it, Nagisa!
[kid] Come on! Come on!
[ping]
[gasp]
[kid] Wow!
[Tomoya] Nice hit, Nagisa!
Run for it, Nagisa!
[Nagisa] Ye...
[Kyou] This is a world that
has come to an end.
An empty and still world
where no one exists but I.
[Nishina] It's not like being
alone at home or school,
you're really completely
alone in the world.
It's a very oppressive sadness,
don't you think?
Yes, that's very
lonely and sad.